
--- Page 1 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
1
You stir into consciousness.  Heat and blazing sunlight... 
the slow rumble of a wagon... heavy chains upon your 
limbs.  You groan, your mouth dry, your stomach empty.  
As your eyes focus you can see your companions, fellow 
survivors of the brutal pirate attack, crushed together 
with you upon the floor of a rolling wagon.  You 
remember little since then, except vowing to your new-
found friends that you would stick together, come what 
may.  You are relieved to see that they are still alive, but 
where are you?
	
Gazing through the bars of the wagon, your eyes 
focus on a blazing yellow-grey desert.  To your left, filling 
the sky, are the Stonewalls – a massive and impenetrable 
mountain range that divides the barbarian kingdoms 
of the south from the antique and mysterious lands of 
Drakehallow.  But which side of the range are you? 
The answer becomes immediately apparent as you look 
beyond the smelly dragonyaks which are ponderously 
hauling your cage.  A vast, crumbling city of minarets 
and run-down adobe buildings fills your view.  The sting 
in the air and on your lips tells you all you need to know. 
This is Saltdad, cruel throne of the tyrant Iron King, one 
of half a dozen tin-pot dictators in the barbaric Valley 
of Bones.  You are far from civilised lands here…
	
Thin-faced slavers with spears rattle the sides of your 
cage, barking at you to get down.  You slump on your 
hindquarters.  For the moment there is nothing you can 
do with you and your companions in chains.  You swear 
you will regain your freedom and start your lives anew. 
But first, you must survive the horrors of slavery.	
Turn to 631.
2
The orcs snarl as they see you, lurching to attack. 
Opponent	
Attack	
Def	
Health
1st Orc	
6 (4+)	
4+	
8
2nd Orc	
4 (4+)	
3+	
9
	
If you win, turn to 478.  You can flee at the start of 
your round if you wish.  If you do, the orcs will chase 
you out of the dungeon.  Turn to 515.
3
The treasure chest contains 200 silver coins and a 
bluestone.  Take what you wish, and then record the 
code A45.  Not wishing to tarry longer, you depart the 
chamber and return to the crossroads.  Turn to 46.
4
You swoop Amelia up into your arms just before she 
reaches the wine barrel.  She shrieks in delight and 
throws an arm around your neck.
	
“Is it my prinsh charming?” she slurs, nuzzling into 
your chest.
	
“Well... if by prince you meant castle pot-washer, 
then yes,” you smile, carrying her over to her quarters 
in the palace.
	
“Tell me something,” says Amelia dreamily, between 
snoozes, as you bear her through the palace.  “Why are 
you so charming to everyone except me?”
	
“Charming is another word for lying,” you say in a 
rare moment of honesty.  “I’d never lie to you, Amelia…”
	
Her snores cut off a potentially romantic moment. 
Tucking her into bed you go to join the rest of your 
companions.  Note in Amelia’s notes box that she has gained 
a heart for Brash. Brash also gains a heart for Amelia.	
Now turn to 280.
5
You meet up with the lead scholar, Emlyn Pass-Ross, 
who is already loading supplies onto the mules.  She is 
joined by three other young scholars who look fresh out 
of university.  They don’t look the type who could handle 
themselves in a dangerous jungle.
	
“We’ll follow our established route into the jungle, 
and then branch off south once we reach the checkpoint,” 
says Emlyn.  “We’ve discovered all sorts of interesting 
plants, but so far surprisingly little that is edible.”	
“What kind of dangers will we face?” you ask.
	
“Most of the jungle beasts leave us alone... to be 
honest, the monkeys are the most dangerous things 
you’ll find.  They travel in huge packs.  They’re intelligent, 
thieving sorts.  You should watch out for them.”


--- Page 2 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
	
Sir Lawrence emerges from his tent to kiss his 
daughter goodbye and to wish you luck.  Soon you have 
emerged from the wooden gates of Lhasbreath and are 
making your way towards the wall of trees that is the 
Lhasbreath jungle.  Within the canopy of the jungle it 
is hot and humid.  The ground is moist and seems to be 
the nest of thousands of tiny, biting insects.  It must have 
rained recently, for the path ahead is flooded.  Emlyn 
curses.  She intended to take that route through the 
jungle to reach the checkpoint.	
Follow the flooded path anyway (turn to 609)?	
Take the expedition off the path and lead them	
through the jungle (turn to 863)?
6
You have already attempted to find a silver idol in the 
Caves of Uranu.  If you were successful, you do not need 
to look again.  If you failed, you will not find another 
here.  Either way, turn to 346 and choose again.
7
If Sar Jessica Dayne or Akihiro is in the distraction team 
they refuse to comply.  Their sense of personal honour 
is too strict to attempt such a strategy.  Turn to 169 and 
choose again.  Otherwise, read on.
	
The guards have been looking at you with hungry eyes 
recently.  You sidle up to the gate-house guards, suggesting 
all sorts of pleasures could await them in exchange for a 
few paltry rations.  Only party members assigned to the 
distraction team can contribute to this check.
Seduce the Guards (Team check)
Skill and DC:  Charisma (3+)
Successes Required:  2
If you succeed, turn to 364.  If you fail, turn to 588.
8
You cast your eye over the book.  It seems to detail 
instructions about how to prepare skeletons for animation 
and control.  If you have the code A75, turn to 845. 
If not, read on.
	
It looks like the hard work has been done for you. 
Four skeletons have been laid out and prepared in exactly 
the right way for animation.  The book claims you will 
even be able to have the skeletons fight for you, though 
they lack the wit for more complex tasks.	
Invoke the ritual (turn to 419)?	
Return to the crossroads (turn to 310)?
9
With a high kick you send the final monk sprawling.  
The other monks in the temple lower their eyes and 
return to their duties, unwilling to block your progress 
further.  You retrieve your weapon and march smartly 
into the temple.
	
Honnu is waiting for you, cross-legged on the floor. 
You join him in meditation for an hour or so, your 
companions venturing elsewhere in the city now they 
can see you are safe.  “It is rare for a supplicant to be 
granted the trials of perfection twice, but you are an 
unusual man, Akihiro.  You must know that your father 
never returned from the trials.  But I sense in you a steel 
he never had.”	
“Thank you, Honnu,” you say, bowing your head.
	
“There would be little point in having you study 
at the temple, you are already skilled in your craft,” 
shrugs Honnu.  “Instead I shall send you straight onto 
your tasks.  Two must be completed before you are 
deemed worthy.  It is traditional to send an applicant 
to retrieve some trifling artefact as proof of dedication; 
a tedious matter, since the only item of true worth is 
enlightenment.  Therefore, I bid you find me a silver 
idol.  Find yourself, Akihiro, whilst you are at it.”	
“Where can I find a silver idol?” you ask unsurely.	
“I’m sure more than one exists, but a man of open 
mind and willing to embrace his destiny might find one 
in the caves of Uranu,” suggests Honnu.  “That place has 
tested, and slain, many a kensai aspirant.  Go wisely, 
Akihiro.  I shall see you soon.”
	
Gain the code A50.  You rise, bow, and go to re-join 
your companions.  Turn to 450.
10
“You should send the man to the Church of Cursus 
and have priests ritually scar him,” says Ti’quon coldly.  


--- Page 3 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
“That way he shall be both punished and spiritually 
improved.”
	
“Yes!” hisses the king.  “The scarring is most painful. 
Send this dog to the church!” 
	
The poor man is dragged away, and the king retires 
with his councillors to discuss other business.  You take 
the opportunity to slip away from the hall.
	
“A rather harsh punishment, ritual scarring,” you 
mutter to Ti’quon as you exit the building.
	
“True enough,” admits Ti’quon. “Except that I 
noticed the poor man had already been scarred by the 
priests, and it is forbidden to perform the ritual twice. 
Getting him out of the sight of the mad king seemed 
to be the most important thing.”	
You shake your head, smiling.  	
Record the code A34 and turn to 19.
11
You carefully begin to sneak out of the chamber, but 
you are out of luck.  The orcs spot you as you attempt to 
climb the stairs, and leap to a savage attack.  Turn to 213, 
but note that the slaves cannot help you in this battle, as 
their chains are too short to attack the orcs now they are 
at the back of the chamber fighting you.
12
You are making your way across the Westroad, an ancient 
highway built up to resist the burying sands of the Valley. 
Travellers and soldiers pass intermittently, making their 
way between the cities of Saltdad and Clifftop.	
Roll a die.	
1-2 	 turn to 466.	
3 	
turn to 397.	
4-6 	 turn to 569.
13
What do you wish to do now?	
Board your ship	
(only if you have a ship here, turn to 851)?	
Enter the wide tunnel (turn to 593)?
14
You have returned to the Tumblestones, in the hope 
of discovering more ancient secrets.  Alas, a recent 
sandstorm has buried the exposed stones, with only the 
stern face of the old king left unburied, to stare across 
his ruined empire for all eternity.	
Disappointed, you leave.  Turn to 453.
15
There are few valuables amongst the goblins, though 
you manage to scavenge 15 silver coins from the entire 
horde.  Pleased to have survived you make your way 
onwards.  Turn to 395.
16
You have chosen to battle one of the dark knights of 
Abraxas.  Good luck!
Opponent	
Attack	
Def	
Health
Skallos	
9 (4+)	
5+	
20
Green Skeletons	
8 (4+)	
3+	
30
Notes: On any round when Skallos does not take 
damage, he will unleash a roar of black magic.  Each 
party member must lose 1 point of Health, and Skallos 
will restore 4 points of Health, up to his maximum of 
20 Health points.	
If you win, turn to 811.
17	
Do you have a tithe report?  	
If so, turn to 246.  If not, read on.
The Iron King is most displeased to see you.  
He clicks his fingers and soon you have been dragged 
away to the dungeons for a gruesome session of torture. 
Each party member loses 4 Health points.  Afterwards, 
the king has the guards dispose of you as they see fit.	
Turn to 55.
18
If you have the code A57, turn to 350.  If not, read on.
The door in front of you is stuck.  To get it open you will 


--- Page 4 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
have to force it.  To do this make the skill check below.  
Otherwise you can consider other exits from the room 
by turning to 494.
Force open the door (Individual check)
Skill and DC:  Fighting (5+)
Successes Required:  3
Note:  If you have a prybar, the DC is only 4+.
If you succeed, the door pops open, record the codeword 
A57.  If you fail, you strain yourself, lose 1 Health point.
	
If you get the door open you can explore the corridor 
beyond by turning to 350.  If the door is still stuck you 
can keep attempting the skill check above until you 
succeed, but your selected party member will lose 1 
Health point each time they fail.  You can consider other 
exits from the room by turning to 494.
19
You are in a dreadful city of poor mud-brick and 
grass hovels, surrounded by weed-filled cropland. 
Even the most impressive buildings are little more 
than timber halls, sagging under the weight of their 
own roofs.  The local peasants are care-worn and well 
whipped, scarcely better dressed than slaves.  The 
wealthier members of the town dress less well than a 
Saltdad commoner.  The dissonant bells of the church 
of Cursus clang across town, followed by dirge-like 
processions of rag-wearing choristers singing hymns 
of dull praise to their uncaring deity.
	
  The whole rotten town is perched atop a cliff some 
fifty or so feet tall, and yet this is a port city.  A gigantic 
cargo crane leers over a thin and precarious path to the 
wooden harbour below, where at least some signs of life 
and love can be heard from the cluster of taverns that 
serve the sailors.	
Visit the King’s Hall (turn to 557)?	
Go to the marketplace (turn to 759)?	
Go to the slave market (turn to 152)?	
Visit the harbourside taverns (turn to 505)?	
Go to the Church of Cursus (turn to 207)?	
Head to the dockyard (turn to 703)?	
Explore the city (turn to 354)?	
Leave the city east, along the road (turn to 12)?	
Leave the city south, into the desert (turn to 725)?
20
The passageway opens up into a long hall, lined with 
stamped bronze plates.  Torches burn in brackets along 
the walls, illuminating hideous murals of serpents 


--- Page 5 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
devouring animals, trees and rocks.  You see daylight 
ahead and come upon a chamber whose roof is open 
to the blazing sun.  It is another temple chamber with 
black altars and fine silverwork dominating the room.
	
Rising from his position in front of the high altar, a 
snakeman priest in flowing vestal robes turns to gaze at 
you with piercing eyes.
	
“The heretic slaves return!” he hisses.  “Do not think 
that you can seek repentance from the lord of judgement 
now!  Once a traitor, always a traitor!”	
If you have the code A41, turn to 714.  If not, read on.
	
“We have betrayed no one!” you reply.  “You have 
trapped us here.  Allow us to leave and we will do you 
no harm.”	
“Liars!  You have stolen our god!” spits the 
snakeman priest.  “Our breed faulters and dies.  Now, 
you shall die with us!”  The snakeman hisses foul words 
of sorcery.  Suddenly the temple walls begin to crack, 
and blocks of stone rain down upon you.  Even as the 
temple collapses the snakeman priest advances towards 
you, brandishing his staff.
Opponent	
Attack	
Def	
Health
Snakeman Priest 	
4 (4+)	
3+	
16
Note:  At the end of each of the Snakeman Priest’s 
turns, blocks of stone come raining down from the walls.  
The priest and each party member loses 1 Health.  
This continues each round until the priest has been slain. 
If you have a hygliph flower, the priest is put off by its 
pungent odour and requires a 5+ on his attack rolls to 
inflict damage during this battle.	
If you win, turn to 881.
21
You are steering along the jungle peninsula, across waters 
known as Cape Porta.  It is a famous lair of pirates and 
other ne’er-do-wells.  Roll a die.  On a 1, turn to 429. 
Otherwise you can now sail north towards Clifftop (turn 
to 82), east towards Cursus (turn to 814), or west towards 
the Savage Lands (turn to The Savage Lands 75)?
22
Avoiding Chellar’s room, you still manage to secure a 
pretty horde of items. You may take any or all of the 
following:  jewellery box, calligraphy ink, silver idol, 
gold portrait, bronze scorpion. You emerge with 
Brekken back onto the landing.  You decide, with a 
mutual nod, that you have pushed your luck far enough 
in the house and make your way back out of the windows 
and into the streets of the city.  Turn to 833.
23
You emerge into a short corridor running west to east. 
To the west you can make out a crossroads.  To the 
east a flight of stairs leads upwards.  There is a door in 
the south wall.	
Go west (turn to 310)?	
Go east, up the stairs (turn to 437)?	
Go through the door in the south wall (604)?
24
You have entered a chamber which is well furnished with 
flags and banners.  It has the feel of a Chalice temple, 
although there is no sign that anyone actually worships 
here.  A statue of a kneeling monk rests at the far end 
of the room.  There are two exits from the chamber, 
each of them leading to a tunnel with stairs ascending. 
Gain the code A77.
	
Suddenly you see a light coming down the left-hand 
stairwell.  Something is coming... but it is walking softly;  
you cannot make out the sound of footsteps.	
Hide behind the statue (turn to 782)?	
Confront whoever is coming down the stairs	
(turn to 757)?
25
You stand in the shadow of the Stonewalls, the finger-
like crags soaring high into the burning sky.  Cut into the 
roots of a tall mountain are the infamous salt mines of 
Saltdad.  Dozens of warehouses are scattered around the 
entrance of the mine, with workers boiling away the salt 
from rock with water drawn from the Cold River to the 


--- Page 6 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
east.  Below your feet, and deep into the mountain, you 
know that thousands of slaves toil in the grim darkness.
	
The mine guards bring you to the owners, hard-faced 
men with unflinching stares.	
If you have the code A1, turn to 532.  If not, read on.
	
“I suppose you are here about the troglodytes,” sighs 
Clavod, the mine master.  “We are losing so many slaves 
it starts to become worth protecting them after a while. 
The deal is 25 silver for each troglodyte head you bring 
me.  Take it or leave it.”	
Clavod sees your blank expression.  “Unless you came to 
arrange salt transportation, of course,” he says hastily.  “We 
can transport salt to ships moored in Clifftop or Cursus.”	
Accept the mission to hunt the troglodytes (turn to 681)?	
Sell him some troglodyte heads (turn to 233)?	
Express interest in buying salt for your ships (turn to 575)?	
Apologise for wasting the mine master’s time	
and leave (turn to 722)
26
Cross the quicksilver off your adventure sheet.  You 
pour the liquid metal into the well and cross your fingers. 
Soon, the runes around the circle blaze into light, 
dousing you with brilliant coloured energies.  When 
the glow finally wears off you feel stronger than before.  
Choose a party member and increase their maximum, 
unwounded Health score by 1 point.
	
Feeling more vigorous than ever, you return to the 
crossroads (turn to 566).
27
The Everchild presents you with a bar of gold bullion to 
help convince the mercenaries to change sides.  Ayleta has 
been in private communication with the mercenaries for 
some time and has already negotiated a safe path between 
the mercenary encampment and the Everchild’s forces.
	
You are received coolly by the unit captain, who 
cautiously welcomes you into his tent with his officers 
and bodyguards around him.  You state your opinion 
that the Everchild’s victory in the coming conflict is 
all but certain, and that she is willing to let mercenary 
companies that co-operate with her depart safely. 
Matters soon turn to money, with the mercenary captain 
suggesting that quite a lot of additional money will be 
coming his way should the patriarch win the battle, and 
Saltdad and other cities need to be supressed.  He is also 
worried about his reputation if he plays turncoat without 
fighting even a single battle for his employer.  Only party 
members assigned to the mercenary team may assist with 
this skill check.
Bribe the Mercenaries (Team check)
Skill and DC:  Charisma (6+)
Successes Required:  7
Note:  If you give the mercenaries a bar of gold bullion, 
the DC of this check becomes 5+.  If you give them two 
bars, the DC becomes 4+.  If you give them three bars 
the DC becomes 2+.
If you are successful, turn to 122.  If you fail, turn to 832.
28
You come across a group of zealots from Cursus, 
sweeping the land for any heretics or unbelievers they 
can find.  If anyone in your group bears ritual scarring, 
the zealots will let you pass.  Otherwise they bombard 


--- Page 7 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
you with questions about the faith, to determine your 
worthiness.
Answer Cursite zealots (Team check)
Skill and DC:  Lore (4+)
Successes Required:  4
If you are successful the zealots reluctantly let you go. 
Turn back to 657 and choose a destination.  Otherwise 
your heretical ignorance drives them into a killer frenzy 
and you must fight.
Opponent	
Attack	
Def	
Health
1st Zealot	
3 (4+)	
4+	
10
2nd Zealot	
4 (4+)	
4+	
11
3rd Zealot	
3 (4+)	
4+	
10
Zealot Healer	
3 (4+)	
4+	
15
Note:  The Zealot Healer will only attack if he is the last 
opponent standing.  Otherwise he will heal each zealot 
2 Health points.  These additional points can take them 
over their starting health.	
If you win, turn to 63.
29
You curse as the thief fades from view.  You cannot face 
the owner of the house for shame, and instead slip away 
into the city.  Turn to 450.
30
You sit down with the nomad chief and share a pipe of 
smoking weed with him.  He is a jovial fellow, unaffected 
by the woes of a nomadic life.  
	
If you have the code A1, and you do not have the 
code A37, turn to 737.  Otherwise you have nothing of 
importance to discuss with him.  Turn back to 473.
31
If you have the code A56, turn to 788.  If not, read on.
	
As you approach the door you do not see the orcs 
from the nearby guardroom closing in behind you.  
Turn to 2, but note that the orcs get the first combat 
turn, not you.
32
You quietly utter the correct counter spells to render 
the arcane wards passive.  Slipping inside you can see 
Descantos himself, an elderly wizard, in deep meditation 
– no doubt preparing his spells for tomorrow’s conflict.	
Sneak up to the wizard and slit his throat (turn to 336)?
	
Overwhelm and stab the wizard to death in a sudden 
rush (turn to 877)?
33
The harbour of Cursus is long and shallow.  The jetties 
reach far out beyond the coast, each wide enough for a 
pair of dragonyaks to drag the cargoes of ships to the 
warehouses on the beach.
	
You may buy a ship here, if you have enough money. 
The largest vessel for sale is the Cursite war galley, a 
coastal-hugging warship which carries little cargo, but 
is the only vessel that can even hope to compete with 
the more advanced vessels of Royce and Drakehallow. 
A smaller, but more efficient, single-masted cog is also 
available.  The war galley will cost 1500 silver coins, and 
the cog 800 silver coins.
Cog	
Fighting 4	
Health 7		
Cargo 2 units
Cursite War Galley	
Fighting 6	
Health 9		
Cargo 1 unit
When you buy a ship you should give it a name, fill in 
its details on your adventure sheet and note that it is 
currently docked in Cursus harbour.
You can repair any ship you have in Cursus harbour.  
Each Health point you restore costs 50 silver coins. 
You can restore your ship up to its starting Health value.
You can sell a cog here for 250 silver coins, a Cursite war 
galley for 500 silver coins and a carrack for 1500 silver 
coins.  You cannot sell other kinds of ship here.
	
You can buy cargo for your ship here, as well.  These 
goods are too large for your characters to carry, but they 
can be loaded onto any ship you have in Cursus harbour. 
You cannot buy more cargo units than you can store in 
your ship (for instance, a Cog can carry 2 Cargo Units). 


--- Page 8 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
You can also sell any goods you are carrying in your 
ships for the same price as well.
Salt	
600 silver coins
Crops	 500 silver coins
Steel	
3000 silver coins
Spices 	 3300 silver coins
Wine	
2100 silver coins
Slaves 	 1000 silver coins
When you have finished your trades, turn to 340, to 
return to the city centre, or 499 to set sail on one of 
your ships.
34
You return to the large burial chamber.  The ghouls are 
long gone, and there is no more treasure to be found here. 
If you wish you can scribe the spell on the bronze tablet 
into your spellbook, if you have had reason to remove it.  
Wisdom (Adventure)
Your mind awakens with ancient knowledge.  
Cast this spell when you have failed a Lore check.  
You gain 3 automatic successes for this check only.
Recharge:  75 silver
When you are ready, return to the crossroads by 
turning to 46.
35
“You say the captain wishes to see us?  And he mentioned 
a promotion?” presses the guard.
	
“Apparently his current lieutenant is not up to 
scratch,” shrugs Brash.  “He’s asked to see other guards as 
well.  I imagine the first to see the captain will probably 
get the promotion.”
	
The guards push past you in their eagerness to get 
to the captain’s office.  Turn to 456, but note that your 
distraction team can join up with the weapons team for 
all future checks.
36
You are in the ogre’s bedroom.  It would be too unpleasant 
(not to mention unhygienic) to rest here yourselves, so 
you gingerly make your way back outside.  Turn to 310.
37
The Lhasbreath barbarian suddenly jolts, a blade sticking 
out of his chest.  He falls away, to reveal a smirking Tash, 
her crude sword dripping with blood.
	
“Thanks, Tash,” smiles Jessica, helped to her feet 
by the clever thief.  Sar Jessica won’t soon forget this.  
Note in Jessica’s notes box that she has gained a heart 
for Tasha.  Tasha also gains a heart for Sar Jessica.	
Now turn to 753.
38
You kill the orc in a single stroke.  He keels over, the 
book slipping from his grasp.  Gain the code A71.
Examine the black book he was reading (turn to 119)?
Close the door and go somewhere else (turn to 821)?
39
You join the disorganised caravan guards, barking orders 
at them to form a defensive line and protect their archers. 
Make the following skill check.
Order the caravan guards (Team check)
Skill and DC:  Charisma (5+)
Successes Required:  3	
If you succeed, turn to 542.  If you fail, turn to 451.
40
With a dramatic flourish you unroll the dragon head 
from its wrappings (cross off the dragon head from your 
adventure sheet).  King Scarrenden stands in amazement, 
and a gasp echoes across the chamber.  His councillors 
flock round the head, to confirm its origins.
	
“This is indeed impressive,” agrees the king.  “I set 
you a challenge and you have overcome it.  Therefore, I 
shall be as good as my word.  I shall send the Everchild 
my finest berserkers to aid her struggle.  She also has 
the loyalty of my city.  May she be victorious in her 


--- Page 9 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
endeavours, and may her glory be ours!”
	
There is a mixed cheer from the hall.  Not all are 
pleased that King Scarrenden has submitted his city to 
the rule of a child.  However, even here the Everchild’s 
fame is evident, and the enthusiasm of some of the 
warriors cannot be mistaken.
	
Add the following soldiers to the Luutanesh barracks. 
If the queen currently resides in Saltdad, add the soldiers 
to the Saltdad barracks instead.  These berserkers are 
strong but flighty troops, who will fight for you as long 
as the going is good.
Lhasbreath Berserkers – Strength 5, Morale 2
	
Gaining King Scarrenden’s support has been quite 
an endeavour.  Choose a party member and roll two 
dice.  If the result is higher than their Survival score, 
they gain 1 point of Survival.  Gain the code A16 and 
turn to 775 when you are finished here.
41
Dazzling sunlight almost blinds you as you emerge 
into daylight.  You are in a sandy, secluded alleyway, 
the sounds of marketplace hawkers reaching your ears. 
You quickly help the Everchild out of the drains, hiding 
her behind some tall baskets as you check for the guards.
	
“We are free!” she gasps.  “I feared I might die in that 
terrible place.”
	
“What will you do now?” you ask.  “You cannot stay 
in the city…”
	
“No – here we shall divide for safety,” she agrees. 
“Che Long can look after me from here on in.  I cannot 
thank you enough for your safe delivery of myself and 
my followers.  I can give you no reward, and you owe 
me nothing, but…”
	
You silence her as you duck behind the baskets.  
A guard patrol of men in gleaming bronze armour clank 
past, wickedly shaped halberds in their grasp.  “The 
Bronzeguard,” hisses Che Long.  “The elite warriors and 
boot lickers of the Iron King.  Their armour is supposedly 
enchanted, dug up from the palace vaults by the Iron 
King’s servants.”	
“They are still men underneath,” you growl.
	
“If you hate tyranny and would see justice restored, 
come and find me in the Cold River Inn, in Luutanesh,” 
implores the Everchild.  “The path to freedom is long 
and difficult, but together we can find a way to end the 
bloody reign of the Iron King forever.”
	
The coast is clear, and Che Long quickly bows to 
you.  “We must go before the general alarm is raised. 
You have my thanks.  Come majesty.”
	
At that the Everchild covers her head with a cowl 
and slips into the crowds with her followers.  
	
Gain the code A6.  Your experiences in the arena have 
taught you much.  If this is the first Legendary Kingdoms 
book your party members have played, you may raise one 
skill (Fighting, Stealth, Lore, etc) by one point for each 
of your characters.  If you have explored other books first, 
your party members can instead increase their maximum 
Health scores by 1 point each.	
Now turn to 313.
42
You return to the small reading room, mouldering books 
scattered across the tiny library.  If you currently own a 
scroll of rage you find nothing.  If you do not have this 
scroll, you are surprised to see it back on the shelf, in 
the same place you found it last time.  It seems that the 
scroll teleports back here each time it is used.  
	
You can take the scroll of rage, as long as you did not 
enter the room with one in your inventory.  You cannot 
have more than one scroll of rage equipped at any given 
time.  You can use it in combat to increase the Fighting 
score of each of your party members by 1 point until the 
end of the combat.  After one use it will teleport back to 
the bookshelf in this room.  Turn to 494 when you are 
finished here.  
43
Janus is overjoyed to see the locket.  You hand it over 
to him and he cradles it in his hands (cross the bronze 
locket off your adventure sheet).  “Now I can remember 
Alidale always!” he sighs.  He opens the locket to have 
a look inside, when suddenly there is a flash and a 
profusion of smoke.


--- Page 10 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
	
Stepping out of the smoke comes a young woman, 
a wizard by the looks of her, coughing and waving the 
smoke away from her face.  “Alidale?” gasps Janus.  
“Why!  You don’t look a day older than when you left 
for that temple!”
	
“Janus!” she cries overjoyed.  “You... do look a bit 
older, if I’m honest.  I must have been in that locket for 
a long time.”
	
Alidale explains that she was surrounded by hideous 
serpent men and was forced to transport herself inside 
her locket for protection.  The snake men assumed she 
had teleported away, but in fact she has been trapped 
in the locket for all these years.  She never expected 
a rescue would take forty summers.  She has little to 
reward you with but shares with you some of her many 
discoveries and insights into the ancient world that she 
has uncovered in her travels.  Choose a party member 
and increase their Lore skill by 1 point.	
Gain the code A29.
	
Bidding the odd couple farewell, you resume your 
journey.  Turn to 614.
44
Tackling the room will come in two stages.  Firstly, 
you must attempt to figure out the safest route.   
By examining the positions of the orc bodies you might 
be able to work out which parts of the room are safe and 
which parts are deadly traps.  Secondly, someone must 
attempt to carefully sneak through the room.
Discern the safe route (Team check)
Skill and DC:  Lore (5+)
Successes Required:  Special
You cannot fail this test, but remember the number 
of successes you managed to get.  Next, pick someone 
to try and sneak through the room, and make the 
following check.
Sneak through the room (Individual check)
Skill and DC:  Stealth (4+)
Successes Required:  7
Note:  For every Lore success you achieved, lower the 
number of successes required by 1.
If you succeed, turn to 385.  If you fail, turn to 769.
45
Timing it just right, you begin to shove one another 
in the water queue.  To make it convincing, you start 
to exchange a few hard blows, attempting to drag 
other slaves in the queue into your rumble.  Each party 
member involved in the fight must lose 1 Health point. 
Only party members assigned to the distraction team 
can contribute to this check.
Stage a convincing fight (Team check)
Skill and DC:  Fighting (4+)
Successes Required:  3
If you succeed, turn to 837.  If you fail, turn to 762.
46
You have returned to the crossroads.  Above you daylight 
streams through the exit shaft.	
Go northwest (turn to 761)?	
Go northeast (turn to 801)?	
Go southeast (turn to 869)?	
Go southwest (turn to 217)?	
Climb back up to the surface (turn to 426)?
47
You gather round and attempt to pull apart the barrier, 
but despite its crude appearance it is actually very well 
built.  Even sledgehammers and mules couldn’t pull this 
barricade down from this side.  Is this as far as the orcs 
have penetrated into the complex?
	
Grumbling with irritation, you head back east 
towards the small room you came from (turn to 821).
48
The enemy are too numerous.  Horns are sounded, and 
your forces begin a general retreat.  Fortunately, you have 
the open desert to scatter into and a rearward base to 
reform at, but casualties are almost inevitable.  Roll a die 
for each unit you committed to this battle.  On a 1 or a 
2 that unit has been destroyed.  The rest of your units 
manage to reform and retreat back to Saltdad.  Restore 
the Morale scores of each of your surviving units back 
to their starting value.


--- Page 11 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
	
The queen is appalled at her loss but marshals her 
forces with a mother’s tenderness.  “This is not the end,” 
she vows.  “We must rebuild our forces and gather new 
allies.  Clifftop isn’t going anywhere, and neither am I.”	
Turn to 620.
49
Your return trip to Lhasbreath is mercifully uneventful, 
and Sir Lawrence Ross lays on a grand banquet upon 
your arrival.  You spend several days with the Ross’s, 
recovering your strength and discussing your adventures.  
Restore all your party members to maximum Health.
	
When Emlyn reports her findings, the news is good. 
“There are several herbs that appear to have medicinal 
qualities,” she smiles.  “Additionally, one of the flowers 
is producing a sweet pepper which seems edible and 
delicious.  If we can find a source of these in the wild, 
House Ross can enter the spice market.”
	
Sir Lawrence is overjoyed with these results. You receive 
600 silver coins as a reward.  In addition, he presents you 
with a seal of House Ross.  “Should you ever travel to 
Strongstone, present this to the castle steward, Wyrran 
Glenpetre.  You will be treated as an honoured guest.”
	
This has been an amazing adventure.  Choose a party 
member and increase their Survival skill by 1 point.
	
Thanking Sir Lawrence and Emlyn for their 
generosity, you depart into the city.  Gain the code A85. 
Now turn to 775.
50
You manage to translate the brightly painted calendar, 
to the delight of Kopu.  He is impressed with your work 
and presents you with a bluestone as a reward.  You ask 
what the stone is for.
	
“It is sacred to our priesthood,” says Kopu.  “You can 
exchange it for blessings at our temples.”
	
“I thought you said Kalu had no temples anymore?” 
you press.	
“Well,” he says.  “It’s the thought that counts.”
	
Grumbling somewhat, you get some sleep whilst you 
wait out the storm.  Turn to 585.
51
Where will you travel next?	
North, to the Granite Hills (turn to 275)?	
East, into the desert (turn to 202)?	
South, to the Mordain ruins (turn to 515)?	
West, across the desert towards Lhasbreath	
(turn to 752)?
52
Your ship is boarded!  Dozens of the Bando swamp the 
decks, their poisoned blow darts and spears making short 
work of any opposition.  Surrounded, and realising the 
futility of your position, you surrender.
	
You are stripped and bound, along with the rest of 
your surviving crew.  Cross off all items of equipment 
carried by your party members, including any silver 
coins.  Your ship is looted and then sunk, cross it off 
your adventure sheet.
	
After spending a few days with the Bando in cramped 
bamboo cages, the mercenary tribesmen sell you off to 
a passing slaver ship in return for a few gemstones and 
some curious-looking fabrics.  Roll a die to see where 
you are eventually sold:
1-2:  You are sold to the Saltdad Arena, turn to 631.
3-4:  You are sold to the taskmasters of Clifftop,
turn to 866.
5-6:  You are sold to the priests of Cursus, turn to 531.
53
There is no point in risking everyone at once.  
Choose a party member to cross the beam first, and 
then turn to 208.
54
There are a number of close shaves, and even minor 
impacts, but the raft holds steady as you correct its course 
through the sloping rapids.  Eventually the waters calm, 
and you ride the current downstream at a good speed. 
Looking at the densely packed jungle on either side you 
are glad to your soul that you didn’t have to hack your 


--- Page 12 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
way through all that vegetation.  Eventually the jungle 
clears somewhat, and a wide, muddy bank comes into 
view.  Emlyn thinks you have gone far enough, and you 
beach the raft onto the bank.
	
“Skilfully done,” smiles Emlyn as you help her and 
the other scholars to shore.  “Let’s explore the unknown, 
shall we?”  Turn to 763.
55
The guards strip you of your money and equipment. 
Cross off all items and silver on your adventure sheet.  
Jail space is at a premium, so you are sold into slavery.  
Roll a die to determine your fate.
1-2:  You are sold to the Saltdad Arena, turn to 631.
3-4:  You are sold to the taskmasters of Clifftop,
turn to 866.
5-6:  You are sold to the priests of Cursus, turn to 531.
56
If you have the code A23 turn to 244.  If not, read on.
You kiss the burning, rich-yellow sands as you emerge 
from the shadow lands.  You are free from the tyranny 
of the monochrome world.  Choose a party member and 
increase their Survival score by 1 point.  	
Gain the code A23. 
	
You head north, directly away from the Blackwall.  
Turn to 511.
57
The goblins' grasp of your language is rather poor, but 
you endeavour to convince them that you are the enemies 
of their enslavers.
Parley with the goblins (Team check)
Skill and DC:  Charisma (5+)
Successes Required:  3
Note:  If you speak Bando, your DC is only 4+. Oddly, 
the goblins are quite familiar with this language.  
If you succeed, turn to 828. If you fail, the goblins get 
hostile, turn to 389.
58
As you are pouring the poison into the cauldron, the head 
chef catches your hand.  “What’s that?” she demands 
sharply.  You drop the vial (cross the vial of poison off 
your sheet) and bolt away, even as the chefs yell for the 
guards.  You make a dash for the walls, hoping to be able 
to leap over the low barricades of the compound and into 
freedom.  You make it to one of the squat towers that 
line the walls, but alas, three Bronzeguard soldiers stand 
alert in the room.  Barricading the door behind you, the 
team grimly draw their weapons and prepare to fight!
Opponent	
Attack	
Def	
Health
1st Bronzeguard 	
8 (4+)	
5+	
12
2nd Bronzeguard	
9 (4+)	
5+	
10
3rd Bronzeguard	
7 (4+)	
5+	
11	
If you win, turn to 623.
59
You knock the guards down into the dirt and surge 
forwards.  There is nowhere to hide but in the city itself so 
you dash into the streets whilst the guards roar behind you.
Hide from the guards (Team check)
Skill and DC:  Stealth (4+)
Successes Required:  4
If you succeed, turn to 698.  If you fail, turn to 758.
60
The thief is almost in grabbing range.  He turns a corner 
only to find himself in a dead-end alley.  He curses and 
draws his sword.  “You’ve bitten off more than you can 
chew, foreigners!” he spits.  Only party members still in 
the chase can fight in this battle.
Opponent	
Attack	
Def	
Health
Thief of Royce	
5 (4+)	
4+	
14
	
If you win, turn to 391.  If you fail, all party 
members that fought the thief have died.  The thief will 
take their possessions (cross off all items of equipment).  
If you have any party members left they must mourn 
their losses and turn to 450.


--- Page 13 ---
– Legendary Kingdoms –
– THE VALLEY OF BONES –
61	
If you chose Brash turn to 4.	
If you chose Tasha turn to 870.
	
Otherwise you carry Amelia to bed after a few feeble 
protestations.  Once she is safely tucked-in the rest of 
the party retire as well.  Turn to 280.
62
That night, you stroll along the terrace, the sky a canopy 
of stars, reflected in the watery rice paddies that surround 
the house.  You need some fresh air.  Being treated as a 
hero all day and night can be exhausting.
	
You spy Brash leaning back on a chair, his feet up on 
the railings, a cup of rice wine in hand.  He stares out 
over the still landscape.
	
“Silver for your thoughts,” you say, causing Brash to 
yelp in surprise, fall off his chair and crash to ground.
	
“Ah!  Akihiro!  Always catching me at my best!” 
Brash says sheepishly.  You offer him a hand up, the 
fair lad accepting, pulled almost into an embrace.  He 
blushes and backs away.
	
“Not like you to lose your tongue, my friend,” you 
smile.  “You’ve been avoiding me, I sense.”
	
“A bit,” he says.  “I just don’t know what to do with 
myself these days…”
	
“How so?” you ask.  When he doesn’t respond you 
flick him a silver coin, which he catches with his quick 
reflexes.  He looks at it in his hand and realises he has 
been fooled.
	
“I’ve been thinking about you,” he admits.  “Quite 
a bit.  I don’t know what to do about it.  The kind of 
feelings I have aren’t allowed in Royce.”
	
“They are not allowed anywhere,” you say, joining him 
at the railings.  “There are many men who would rather 
kill than love.  And more who would kill to stop love, no 
matter how earnest.  I will never hurry you, Brash, but I 
do not accept uncertainty.  If you feel for me what I feel for 
you, you must be sure.  Once done, we cannot undo it.”
	
You are disturbed by a creak on the floorboards.  You 
turn to see your sister arriving on the terrace.  “Come, 
Akihiro, you are asked for!  Do not keep the people 
from their hero!”
	
“The price of fame,” you smile.  “Come, Brash.  
Walking out on a party is not done.”
	
You offer him your hand, and he accepts, squeezing 
before releasing.  Note in Akihiro’s notes box that he 
has gained a heart for Brash.  Brash also gains a heart 
for Akihiro.  Gain the code A98.  Now turn to 450.  
63
The zealots had a few minor talismans and some gaudy 
jewellery you can sell at a marketplace for 25 silver coins. 
It seems a paltry reward for such a battle.  
Where will you travel now?	
North, towards the Temple of the Unbroken	
(turn to 535)?	
East, towards the city of Cursus (turn to 340)?	
West, towards the Mordain ruins (turn to 515)?
64
With the ascendancy of the Everchild the streets have 
become safer and justice more accessible to the common 
people.  Good news for the city, but it makes for a dull 
walk through the ramshackle town.  Turn to 75.
65
The party member reading the book is standing 
immobile, lost in the mystic words of the cursed book. 
What does the rest of the party do?	
Snatch the book from their grasp (turn to 771)?	
Abandon the party member to their madness	
(turn to 84)?
66
You spend several days in the handsomely appointed 
Cold River Inn.  For every 5 silver coins you spend, each 
party member can recover 1 Health point.  Spellcasters 
can also spend silver here to recharge their spells, 
purchasing components in the nearby marketplace and 
going into meditation in the privacy of their rooms.
	
When you are finished here you can return to the 
Everchild’s hideout (turn to 263) or leave Luutanesh 
(turn to 614).

